# Rendering Lab App

An application to test (in isolation) the rendering capabilities of Advanced Effects.

## Roadmap

- [x] 🖥️ An OpenGL basic application.
- [x] 🎨 Integrated with Skia2D.
- [x] 🟥 That can draw objects
- [ ] 🕐 animate keyframes with interpolation
- [ ] 💨 Apply Effects and Modes

## Understand the project

- `app/`: Where the application begins! (`main.cpp`). Come here to see how the application's overall workflow works
- `src/`: Our source code (`libRenderingLab`)
- `thirdparty/`: Where third-party modules reside (`skia` and `glad`)
- `buildscripts/`: Useful CMake scripts (`CMAKE_MODULE_PATH`)

## How to run

### 🐧 Linux dependencies

You need the typical setup (CMake, Ninja, C++17 compiler, Git...) PLUS this:

```
apt-get install mesa-utils libglu1-mesa-dev freeglut3-dev mesa-common-dev
apt-get install libglew-dev libglfw3-dev libglm-dev
```

### Windows dependencies

**In construction**

### Build & run

Use these commands to clone the source code, setup CMake and build the project:

Use these commands exactly or you may get errors!

```
git clone https://github.com/Advanced-Effects/Rendering-Lab-App.git
cd Rendering-Lab-App
git submodule init
git submodule update
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
cmake --install . --prefix=.
cmake --build .
```

Run:

```
./app/RenderingLab
```

### ❌ Common errors

#### Command 'git', 'cmake', 'ninja', etc... cannot be found

If you're getting these errors it means you lack the tools in your system to build a C++ project. Git is used for downloading the source code, CMake and Ninja are for building the source code. You *cannot* skip these.

#### Cannot find -lskia.friction: File or directory does not exist

```
/usr/bin/ld: cannot find -lskia.friction: El fitxer o directori no existeix
collect2: error: ld returned 1 exit status
```

This error is a *linking error*. It means everything built well separately, but now that everything is being joined together something is not being found.

In this case, we are passing *skia.friction* as a library to link with the main executable:

```cmake
# Source: app/CMakeLists.txt
target_link_libraries(Executable PRIVATE
    skia.friction
)
```

When doing this, we are telling *CMake* (or the linker, *ld*) to look for a file called `libskia.friction.so` in any of the paths CMake expects to find external library files. (This file was previously generated by `thirdparty/skia/CMakeLists.txt` and moved here by the script `buildscripts/skia/CopySkiaLibraryToInstallDir.cmake`)

#### include/core/SkCanvas.h: the file or directory does not exist

```
In file included from /home/programar/Documents/AE/Rendering-Lab-App/src/ISkiaGLWindow.cpp:1:
/home/programar/Documents/AE/Rendering-Lab-App/src/ISkiaGLWindow.h:4:10: fatal error: include/core/SkCanvas.h: El fitxer o directori no existeix
    4 | #include "include/core/SkCanvas.h"
      |          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
compilation terminated.
```

This error means that we are looking for a file in `include/core/SkCanvas.h` within the directories specified by `target_include_directories`, but none can be found. Usually, this means that you haven't pulled the `skia` source code.

**✅ SOLUTION:** Run `git submodule init` and `git submodule update` and trigger another build (you might need to re-run `cmake ..`)
